
The game board has a map where tiles may be
placed. When placing a tile, you must first check to see if
there are any placement restrictions. There are areas reserved
for ocean and specific cities, where no other tiles may be
placed. Furthermore, each tile may have specific restrictions
printed on the respective card or in the summaries below.
When you place the tile, you receive the placement
bonus printed on that area (if any). You also get a bonus for
placing tiles next to ocean tiles (see below).
Ocean tile: Ocean tiles may only be placed on
areas reserved for ocean (see map). Placing an
ocean tile increases your TR 1 step. Ocean tiles are
not owned by any player. Each ocean tile on the
board provides a 2 M€ placement bonus for any
player later placing a tile, even another ocean, next to it.
Example: If you place a city tile adjacent to 2 different
ocean tiles you get 4 M€ as placement bonus
Greenery tile: If possible, greenery tiles must
be placed next to another tile that you own. If
you have no available area next to your tiles, or if
you have no tile at all, you may place the greenery
tile on any available area. Place a player marker on it to
mark your ownership. When placing a greenery tile, you
increase the oxygen level, if possible, and also your TR. If
you can’t raise the oxygen level you don’t get the increase
in TR either. Greenery tiles are worth 1 VP at the end of the
game, and also provide 1 VP to any adjacent city (see below).
City tile: May not be placed next to another
city (exception: Noctis city must always be
placed on its reserved area). Add a player marker.
Each city tile is worth 1 VP for each adjacent
greenery tile (regardless of owner) at the end of
the game. (Note: the card Capital places the unique Capital
city tile, which counts and scores like a normal city tile, but
additionally gives you VPs for adjacent ocean tiles, as stated
on the card.)
Special tiles: Some cards allow you to place
special tiles. Any function or placement
restriction is described on the card. Place the
tile, and place a player marker on it.
Markers are not supposed to run out. If they do, use
convenient replacements.
Resource cubes: Resources are collected on the player board
or on specific cards. There are many types of resources (see
page 14), but they are all marked by these cubes:
COPPER = 1
SILVER = 5
GOLD = 10
Player markers: Each player uses his own color
to mark TR, ownership of tiles, production (see
page 6), and to indicate used blue card actions
(see page 11).
Temperature, oxygen, and generation
markers: Start at the beginning of the respective
track (see page 4).
First player marker: Shifts clockwise each
generation.
One small step for man, but make sure you
watch that step!6
1
2 3 4
5 6 7
1
2
3
4
5 6
7
8
1
3
4
P L AY E R B O A R D S
C A R D S
The player board keeps track of your current resources
and production. Resource cubes are placed in their respective
boxes, and player markers are used on the production tracks.
In the game, resource icons refer to resource cubes, while
resource icons inside brown boxes refer to production of
that resource (see the project card below).
1 Production tracks: If you gain production of a resource,
mark the new production level with your player marker.
Production is not limited to 10. Example: If you play a card
that increases your heat production 3 steps from 19 to 22 you
mark this by having 2 player markers on ’10’ and 1 marker on ’2’
on the production track above the heat box. Impressive!
During the production phase you add resource cubes equal to
your production.
2 MegaCredits (M€) : Are used to pay for cards and other
things. Note: Your M€ income is the sum of your M€ production and your TR. M€ production is the only production that
can be negative, but it may never be lowered below -5.
3 Steel: Is only used to pay for cards with a building tag and
is worth 2 M€/cube. You may pay with both M€ and steel, but
you get no refund for ’overpaying’ with steel.
4 Titanium: Is only used to pay for cards with a space tag
and is worth 3 M€/cube, similar to steel.
5 Plants: May be converted into greenery tiles by using the
depicted action (see pages 5 and 11).
6 Energy: Is used by many cards. All leftover energy is
converted into heat at the beginning of the production
phase.
7 Heat: May be spent to raise temperature 1 step by using
the depicted action (see page 11).
Each player starts the game with a corporation card. During the game,
players buy and play many project cards to get benefits of different kinds. Project
cards are divided into active cards (blue frame, see example), automated cards (green)
and event cards (red), read more on page 10 on how they are played.
1 Tag: Places the card in certain categories, which can affect or be affected by other
cards, or by the player board (e.g. you can pay with steel when playing a building tag).
2 Starting conditions: This tells you how much money (M€) you start with, as well
as other starting resources and production. Some corporations also have a fixed first
action described here (see example card).
3 Effect / action: Boxes marked by a blue ribbon show an ongoing effect or action
that may be used during the game. Actions may be used only once per generation,
while effects are always active.
4 Flavor text: Gives you some background information and feeling for the card.
5 Cost: This is what you pay to play the card from your hand. (To get cards into your
hand, you must first buy them during the research phase, see page 8).
6 Requirement: Any requirement must be met in order to play the card. Some
cards require a global parameter to have reached a certain level, while others can only
be played while the parameter is still low (see example card). Some cards require that
you have certain tags or production. (Note: In order to play the card you must also be
able to perform the effects of the card, see page 9.) Note also that the requirement only
needs to be fulfilled when playing the card, not when you use it later.
7 Immediate effects: Most cards affect your (or your opponent’s) resources or
production. You may also get tiles to place, or other effects.
8 VPs: Some cards give you victory points at the end of the game.
If you are uncertain of how a card works, read the text in parenthesis.7
S E T U P
This describes the setup for the standard
game for 2-5 players. See additional rules for other
game variants on page 13.
1) Game board: Place the game board centrally
on the table. Place the 9 ocean tiles on their reserved
space. Place the temperature and oxygen markers on
their starting positions. Also place the generation
marker on ’1’ on the TR track.
2) Resource cubes and remaining tiles are placed
so that everyone can reach them.
3) Project deck: Make sure you have no
Corporate Era cards in the project deck or among
the corporation cards. These are marked with a red
and white icon in the lower left edge ( ). Shuffle the
project cards and place the project deck next to the
board. Leave space for a discard pile beside it.
4) Players: The player who most recently won a
game of Terraforming Mars is given the first player
marker. Players choose their colors and take the
corresponding player markers and a player board. In
a standard game, you start with 1 extra production of
each resource, so place a player marker on number
1 of each track on the player board. Each player also
places one marker at the starting position (20) of the
TR track on the game board.
5) Deal cards: Players new to Terraforming Mars
each get a Beginner Corporation card, while the other
players are now dealt 2 normal corporations and 10
project cards.
6) Choose cards: A Beginner Corporation gets
to keep all their cards for free, while the other players
now simultaneusly choose which corporation to
play, and what project cards to keep in their starting
hand. (Each card you keep will cost 3 M€ from the
corporation you choose.)
7) Starting conditions: In player order, each
player reveal which corporation they will play, get
any starting resources and production stated on
the corporation card, pay for the cards they keep.
Each card costs 3 M€, and the remaining cards are
discarded in a common discard pile - cards are always
discarded face down! Put the discarded corporation
back in the box. Be aware that your resources for the
following few generations will be quite limited until
you get your economy going.
8) Start the game: The first generation starts
without a player order phase and without a research
phase (since you just performed those phases during
setup), so the first player just starts the action phase.
Example: Kim, Stanley, and Robinson decide to play
a standard game of Terraforming Mars. They each
choose their color, take a player board and mark
starting production by placing markers on ’1’ on the six
production tracks. Kim, the first player, deals 10 project
cards and 2 corporation cards to each player. They
examine their cards, and when they have all decided
which cards and corporations they want, they start to
reveal them in player order.
Kim reveals her corporation: PhoboLog, which gives
her 10 titanium resources and 23 M€ that she collects
on her player board. Then she declares that she buys
5 cards to her hand, paying 15 M€ for them. She’s got
a few expensive space cards that will put her titanium
to good use. Then she discards the unused corporation
card back into the box, and the 5 unbought project
cards face down into the discard pile next to the deck.
Stanley then reveals that he’s going to play ThorGate,
starting with 48 M€ and 1 extra energy production,
which he marks on his player board. Stanley decides to
keep all 10 cards and pays 30 M€ for them.
Robinson decides to play Tharsis Republic (see example
card on previous page). He adds 40 M€ to his player
board and pays 12 M€ for the 4 cards he decides to
keep, leaving 28 M€. As his first action, he will get to
place a city tile. Not only that, but the city tile may give
him a placement bonus as well, and his corporation
card says that he may increase his M€ production 1
step each time a city tile is placed on Mars, and that
he also gets 3 M€ back when he places any city himself.
And now the first generation starts with Kim taking the
first turn in the Action phase...8
G E N E R AT I O N S
Because of the long time spans needed for the
projects, this game is played in a series of generations. Each
generation the players go through 4 phases.
1) Player Order phase
The first player marker shifts 1 step clockwise and
the generation marker is moved up 1 step. This phase is
skipped the first generation (see setup).
2) Research phase
Each player draws 4 cards and decides which of
them he wants to buy to his hand. Each card costs 3 M€ to
buy to the hand, and you may buy 0-4 cards. The rest of the
4 drawn cards are discarded face down on the discard pile.
There is no hand limit. If the deck runs out of cards, shuffle
the discard pile to form a new deck and continue play. This
phase is also skipped the first generation (see setup).
Example: In the second generation, the players have
their first normal research phase. They put down their hand
cards and draw 4 cards each to buy from. Stanley decides to
buy 3 of his cards, so he pays 9 M€ and discards the remaining
card, adding the 3 new cards to his hand.
3) Action phase (see page 9)
Players take 1 or 2 actions each turn, or pass. Play
proceeds clockwise around the table until all players have
passed. The actions may be combined in any way the player
chooses. The available actions are:
A) Play a card from your hand (see page 9).
B) Use a standard project (see page 10).
C) Claim a milestone (see page 10).
D) Fund an award (page 11).
E) Use the action on a blue card (see page 11).
F) Convert 8 plants into a greenery tile (which gives an oxygen increase) as described on the player board (see page 11).
G) Convert 8 heat into a temperature increase as described
on the player board (see page 11).
You can choose to take 1 or 2 actions on your
turn. If you take no action at all (pass), you are out of the
round and may not take any more actions this generation,
but as long as you take actions, you will get more turns.
When everyone has passed, the action phase ends.
Example: Stanley starts the second generation action
phase by using the standard project ’Sell patents’ (see page 10):
he discards a card to gain 1 M€ - he realized that that card
was not really helpful for his situation. Plus, he wants to see
what the others do before deciding his own course of action.
After that, Robinson uses the standard project City and pays
25 M€ to place a city and increase his M€ production 1 step.
Being Tharsis Republic, this gives him another M€ production and 3 M€ back, besides the normal tile placement bonus.
Content with just one action, he tells Kim to start her turn.
Kim plays the space project Asteroid Mining at a cost of 30
M€, spending 8 titanium (it’s a space project). Because of
PhoboLog’s effect, each titanium is worth 4 M€, which makes
a total of 32 M€. She could have
payed 7 titanium plus 2 M€, but she
pays 8 anyway because she’s low
on cash. Asteroid Mining allows
Kim to increase her titanium
production 2 steps, so she adjusts
that parameter on her player
board, and then places the
card before her. Kim decides
to play another space card as
her second action, spending
more titanium in the process,
before giving the turn to Stanley,
who now has decided to go for Geothermal Power.
That card has a power tag and costs 11 M€, but because
Stanley has the corporation ThorGate, with a discount effect
for power cards, he only needs to pay 8 M€ for it.
And so the turn continues around until everyone is out by
doing no actions.
4) Production phase
All players perform this phase simultaneously.
First, all energy is converted into heat (move all resource
cubes from the energy box to the heat box). Secondly, all
players receive new resources:
Players get M€ according to their terraform rating
plus any M€ production (which may be negative!), then the
players also get any other resources they have production of
according to the player board. Place all generated resources
in their corresponding boxes. (See page 6)
Finally, remove player markers from used action
cards, to mark that they may be used again next generation
(see page 11).
Now you are ready to start the next generation.
Example: Kim gains 21 M€ from her TR and M€
production. She also produces 3 titanium resources (because
she played Asteroid Mining earlier), and 1 each of the other
resources, adding them on her player board.9
A B C D E
A C T I O N S
As shown on page 8, there are 7 different actions that
players may choose from on their turn. Players may do 1 or
2 actions on their turn, in any combination (for example 2 of
the same action). By choosing 2 actions, a player can surprise
the others, by doing more than they expected and beat them
to some goal or bonus. Choosing only 1 action can be useful
too - it can be used for waiting out your opponents or just to
do a no-brainer while thinking about your more important
decisions.
A) Play a card from your hand
When playing a card, there are 3 steps to consider:
1) Check the requirements.
2) Pay for the card and get any immediate effects.
3) Place the card appropriately.
1) Check the requirements.
In order to play a card you must meet its requirements and be able to perform the effects stated on the card,
with the following exceptions: You may play a card that...
- raises global parameters that have already reached
their goal (for example when there are no more ocean tiles, or
when the temperature is at +8 °C).
- adds resources that you can’t collect (for example
adding microbe resources without having any microbe
project to place them on).
-removes resources for any player (red-bordered
resource icons, see example on card C below) if you can’t or
do not wish to.
Even if these effects can’t be performed, you may still play the
card, performing all other effects as usual.
Example: Kim can play Asteroid (card C) even if the
temperature has reached its goal, but then she gets no TR. She
may also choose not to remove any plants at all, or just do it
partly (maybe only Kim herself has plants, or maybe Stanley or Robinson have less than 3 plants to remove). All plants
must be taken from the same player, though.
Cards A, B, D and E below each have a requirement
listed next to the card’s cost. To play card A, you need to
have titanium production. To play card B, the oxygen level
needs to be 9% or lower, and you also need to have energy
production since the card requires you to decrease your
energy production. To play card D, the oxygen level must be
9% or higher. You also need to have plant production, since
the card requires you to decrease your plant production.
Card E requires 5% oxygen and energy production.
The cost required to play the card is stated in the
upper left corner. Some blue cards already in play may
give you a discount (for example, E gives a discount when
playing a space card). You may also use steel and titanium to
help pay for building and space cards respectively.
2) Paying and performing immediate effects.
First you must pay the card’s cost.
Then the lower panel of the card shows you any
immediate effects. These effects (and other effects triggered
by the card you just played) are performed in any order you
choose.
Any production (see brown boxes on cards A,
B, D & E) must be performed. Resources or production
with a red frame means that you can affect any player you
choose (even yourself). Resources or production without
red frames always affect yourself and must be performed.
So card A essentially steals a titanium production from an
opponent, while in B, D and E you must decrease your own
energy or plant production in order to increase your M€
production.
Cards may also feature tiles and tags with a red
border, and that red border signifies that you may target any
player’s tiles or tags. This is also specified in the card text.10
D E
C
B A
B) Use a standard project
The 6 standard projects printed on the game board
are always available to the players. Each of them may be
used several times during the same generation.
1) Sell patents: You may discard 1 or more cards from hand
to gain 1 M€ per card discarded.
2) Power plant: For 11 M€ you get to increase your energy
production 1 step.
3) Asteroid: For 14 M€ you get to increase temperature 1
step (and therefore your TR).
4) Aquifer: For 18 M€ you get to place an ocean tile (you
also get 1 TR and collect any placement bonus for the tile,
see page 5).
5) Greenery: For 23 M€ you get to place a greenery tile,
which increases oxygen level (and your TR) 1 step, and
collect any placement bonus for the tile. Put a player marker
on the tile. (See page 5)
6) City: For 25 M€ you get to place a city tile (collect any
placement bonus for the tile, and place a player marker on
it. See page 5 for placement rules). You also get to increase
your M€ production 1 step.
Example: Robinson’s first action on his turn is to use
the standard project City to gain his 3rd city tile, continuing
to get extra bonuses from his corporation Tharsis Republic.
C) Claim a milestone
If you meet the criteria of a milestone, you may
claim it by paying 8 M€ and placing your player marker on
it. A milestone may only be claimed by one player, and only
3 of the 5 milestones may be claimed in total, so there is a
race for these! Each claimed milestone is worth 5 VPs at the
end of the game.
These are the milestones and what you need to
claim them (besides paying 8 M€):
Any resources (C) are gained, or removed. Again,
a red border means you can choose the resources of any
one player, so playing card C is usually not very nice. Redbordered resources are optional, though, so card C does not
force you to remove your own plants, even if you are the only
player that has any plant resources. Non-standard resources
(that are not collected on your player board) are instead
collected on specific cards (D). By default, those resources
are usually placed on the same card that generates them.
Livestock (D), for example, gains 1 animal (resource cube)
on it when you use its action (a blue card’s action may be
used only once per generation).
Any tiles (B) placed by the card follow the rules for
tiles (see page 5).
If a card symbol has an asterisk (*), then it is
an exception to the normal rules, and you must read the
explanation in parenthesis to see details of how the card
works.
VP icons (see cards A, D, E) serve no function
during play, but will be counted in the final scoring (see
page 12). Card D may be worth several VPs if its action (top
panel) has had time to work a few times to add more animal
resources to the card.
3) Place the card (see illustration below).
Events (red cards, C) are collected in a personal pile
face down after being played. Their tags only apply while
being played (for example using the discount on card E when
playing a space event).
Automated cards (green, A, B) are placed face up
in a stack on the table with only the top row visible. They
have no further effect, but since they represent the current
extent of your operations, their tags still apply.
Active cards (blue, D, E) have ongoing effects that
may trigger at any time, or actions that you may use (just
like the corporations). Since you need to keep track of these
cards, they are placed with the top panel visible.
Many cards represent ideas for terraforming. They may affect the global parameters or give
you a higher TR in other ways. They may represent
photosynthesising organisms releasing oxygen, or heat
sources that gradually raise the temperature.
There are also other cards that are interlinked
with the terraforming process, either requiring some
terraforming to have been done, or specializing in early
conditions.
Each card has a flavor text that may help you
get a feeling for what the card does ’in reality’.
EVENT PILE11
ISAAC FRYXELIUS
1) Terraformer: Having a terraform rating of at least 35.
2) Mayor: Owning at least 3 city tiles.
3) Gardener: Owning at least 3 greenery tiles.
4) Builder: Having at least 8 building tags in play.
5) Planner: Having at least 16 cards in your hand when you
claim this milestone.
Example: Robinson’s second action (after building
his 3rd city), is to claim the mayor, which he now qualifies
for. He pays 8 M€ and places one of his markers on the Mayor
milestone. This is worth 5 VPs! Only 2 more milestones may
be claimed now, and no one else may claim Mayor.
D) Fund an award
There is no requirement that must be met to fund
an award. The first player to fund an award pays 8 M€ and
places a player marker on it. The next player to fund an
award pays 14 M€, the last pays 20 M€. Only three awards
may be funded. Each award can only be funded once.
In the final scoring, each award is checked, and 5
VPs are awarded to the player who wins that category - it
does not matter who funded the award! The second place
gets 2 VPs (except in a 2-player game where second place
does not give any VPs). Ties are friendly: more than one
player may get the first or second place bonus (see example).
If more than one player gets 1st place bonus, no 2nd place is
awarded.
These are the awards and what they are awarded for:
1) Landlord: Owning the most tiles in play.
2) Banker: Having the highest M€ production.
3) Scientist: Having the most science tags in play.
4) Thermalist: Having the most heat resource cubes.
5) Miner: Having the most steel and titanium resource
cubes.
Example: Stanley pays 8 M€ to fund the award for
thermalist, since he thinks his GHG Factories will give him all
the heat he needs to win that award.
When the game ends, though, Kim also produces
heat and has 12 in her resource box, compared to Stanley’s
12 and Robinson’s 5. Stanley and Kim both get 5 VPs for first
place, while Robinson gets nothing.
E) Use the action on a blue card
Many blue cards and corporations have actions,
as indicated by a red arrow. Each such action card may be
used once each generation. When you use an action on a
blue card, you must first pay any cost stated to the left of
the arrow. You get whatever the arrow points to, and place a
player marker on the card to indicate that it has been used
this generation. The player markers will be removed during
the production phase.
Example: Towards the end of the game, Stanley has
Livestock (card D) in play. He can choose its action on his
turn, adding a resource cube (an ’animal’) to that card, and
placing a player marker on it.
Blue cards may also have effects that are always active, like Shuttles (Card E): When you play a space card, it
costs 2 M€ less. These effects are not actions (no red arrow),
so you can always use them.
F) Convert plants into greenery
8 plant resources may be turned into a greenery
tile, which increases oxygen level 1 step (and therefore also
your TR 1 step).
Note that the greenery tile must be placed next to
another of your tiles (if possible) and may generate placement bonuses (see page 5).
Example: Robinson removes 8 plant resources from
his plant box on the player board, increasing oxygen level 1
step, and raising his terraform rating 1 step as well. Then he
takes a greenery tile and places it between 2 of his city tiles,
and takes the placement bonus, which happens to be 2 plants,
as printed on the chosen area.
Not only did this yield 1 TR plus placement bonus,
but the greenery will be worth 1 VP in itself as well as 1 VP to
each adjacent city in the end game scoring.
G) Convert heat into temperature
8 heat resources may be spent to increase
temperature 1 step (and therefore also your TR 1 step).
”All we need is more power”
Bjorn Sigmund, ThorGate CEO12
NINA FRYXELIUS +
ISAAC FRYXELIUS
G A M E E N D
Suggestions
If you don’t understand the symbols - read the
explanation in parenthesis on the card, or see page
14 & 15 in this rulebook.
Sometimes there are many effects to keep track
of, so please help each other. When several
effects are triggered at the same time, the active
player chooses the order, even for other players’
triggered effects.
Color blind? Let the green player use silver cubes
as markers on the game board.
When all three global parameters (ocean, temperature, and oxygen) have reached their goals, the game ends
at the end of that generation. After the production phase,
players have one extra chance to convert plants into one
or more greenery tiles (in player order; this may also trigger other effects such as placement bonuses). Then the final
scoring takes place. To avoid confusion, we recommend
that one player is chosen to handle the scoring, and that all
other players check that scoring is done correctly.
Final scoring
1) TR: Your TR at the end of the game is your basic score.
Move your marker onward from this point as you add VPs
from the rest of the scoring.
2) Awards: Gives the leading player in that category 5 VPs
and the runner-up 2 VPs (except in a 2-player game). Ties
are friendly: Players at the same level get the same VPs for
1st or 2nd place. (See rules on page 11.) Add your points to
the TR-track.
3) Milestones: Each claimed Milestone is worth 5 VPs.
4) Game board: Players get VPs from the map on the game
board. Each greenery tile is worth 1 VP and each city tile is
worth 1 VP for each greenery adjacent to it (regardless of
who owns the greenery tiles). Count these in player order to
avoid confusion.
5) Cards: First count all VPs on cards that collect resources.
Then gather all of your remaining played cards (including all
your played events!) and count your VPs. If you have Jovian
cards, these may have to be counted separately.
The player with the highest total score is the winner! Any ties
are won by having the most M€.
Example: Stanley has a final Terraform rating of 38,
so that’s where he starts counting his remaining VPs. He got 5
VPs from the award Thermalist, and he also claimed the Planner milestone for 5 VPs. From the game board Stanley has 3
greenery tiles around his lone city, so that’s 3 VPs from the
greenery tiles and 5 VPs for the city, because it also lies next to
2 greenery tiles owned by Robinson. This brings the total up to
56 VPs before the cards are considered.
Stanley has 3 resources on his Livestock card, giving
him 3 VPs. He also has a total of 6 extra VPs on his other face
up cards (blue and green), and -1 VP on an event card (red),
making his final score 64 VPs.
are you a winner?13
MARIA FRYXELIUS
G A M E VA R I A N T S
Corporate Era (extended game):
To play the extended game, simply add all cards
marked with a red and white icon ( )on the cards’ lower left
border at the start of setup, including 2 new corporations.
Players start with no extra production of resources (see
Setup - Players on page 7). Corporate Era can be combined
with any of the other game variants.
Corporate Era focuses on economy and technology.
These are projects that do not contribute directly to the
terraforming, but make the corporations stronger, adding
new strategic choices to the game.
Playing Corporate Era makes the game longer and
more complex. We do not recommend it for players new to
Terraforming Mars.
Solo version:
The solo version always uses the Corporate Era
setup; include all the Corporate Era cards and start without
any production, except for what your corporation may give
you. All rules apply as usual with these exceptions:
1) Before you choose your cards, place 2 neutral city tiles on
the map with an adjacent greenery tile each (these tiles are
not yours, and do not increase the oxygen level): reveal and
discard the 4 top cards of the deck and use their cost numbers
to determine the positions of the tiles. The first city is placed
counting from top left to right and down, like reading. Skip
any illegal placements (like areas reserved for ocean). For
the second city you step backwards from bottom right in the
same fashion. Then you place the two greeneries by counting
the cost numbers and stepping clockwise around each city,
starting from top left, skipping illegal placements.
Special case: If you choose to play Tharsis Republic this
game, you get M€ production for the 2 neutral cities even
though they are placed before you reveal your corporation.
2) Start with a terraform rating of 14 instead of 20 (marked
’solo’ on the track) and without the extra production of
resources decribed for the standard game.
3) Awards and Milestones are not used.
4) You have a neutral opponent that you can steal from, or
reduce any kind of resources and production from.
5) You always play 14 generations (marked ’solo’).
In order to win, you need to complete terraforming (i.e
making the three global parameters reach their goal) before
the end of generation 14. After generation 14, you may
convert plants into greenery tiles, following normal rules
but without raising the oxygen, and finally you score VPs to
get as high a score as possible. If you have not completed
terraforming by the end of generation 14, you lose.
Draft variant:
If more interaction is desired, the Draft variant may
be used. During the Research phase the players draft 4 cards
to buy from instead of just drawing 4 to buy from:
Each player first gets 4 cards and chooses one to
draft, putting it aside and passing the rest to the next player.
Then you have 3 cards; set aside 1 of them and pass the rest
to the left. Then set aside 1 of the 2 you receive, pass the last
card, and finally receive your last card.
Then examine the 4 cards you’ve set aside (drafted)
and choose which to buy (3 M€ each) and which to discard.
Drafting is not used during the first generation
since the first Research phase is skipped (see setup). Cards
are passed clockwise during even-numbered generations
and counter-clockwise during odd-numbered generations.
This variant allows players to affect which cards
other players get access to, and increases your ability to
pursue a certain strategy, or predict which parameter will
rise first.
The Draft Variant adds some extra game time and is
not recommended for players new to Terraforming Mars.

-- These are the rules for Terraforming mars